Network Stubbing Documentation (#2854)
cypress-io/cypress-documentation: source/api/commands/route2.md

---
title: route2
containerClass: experimental
---

{% note warning %}
{% fa fa-warning orange %} **This is an experimental feature. In order to use it, you must manually configure the {% url "`experimentalNetworkMocking`" experiments %} option to `true`.** See {% issue 687 %} for more details.
{% endnote %}

Use `cy.route2()` to manage the behavior of network requests at the network layer.

# Comparison to `cy.route()`

Unlike {% url `cy.route()` route %}, `cy.route2()`:

- can mock all types of network requests including Fetch API, page loads, XMLHttpRequests, etc.
- does not require calling {% url `cy.server()` server %} before use

# Syntax

```javascript
cy.route2(routeMatcher)
cy.route2(routeMatcher, response)
cy.route2(method, routeMatcher)
cy.route2(method, routeMatcher, response)
```

## Usage

**{% fa fa-check-circle green %} Correct Usage**

```javascript
cy.route2('/users/**')
```

## Arguments

**{% fa fa-angle-right %} routeMatcher** ***(String, Glob, RegExp, Object)***

The `routeMatcher` argument allows you to listen for a route matching a specific URL or pattern.

> For simple route matching, passing a string, glob, or RegExp is the simplest method:

Reviewer: simple simple simple simple

```suggestion
To match on requests with a certain URL, passing a string, glob, or RegExp is the simplest method:
```

```js
// String
cy.route2('/users')

// Regex
cy.route2(/users\/\d+/)

// Glob to match all paths in the /user path

> // Uses minimatch for matching: https://github.com/isaacs/minimatch

Reviewer: to be specific, matches against URLs

```suggestion
// Uses minimatch for matching against request URLs: https://github.com/isaacs/minimatch
```

Option | Default | Type | Description
--- | --- | --- | ---
`auth` | `null` | *Object* | HTTP basic authentication including `username` and `password`
`headers` | `null` | *Object* | Client request headers
`hostname` | `null` | *String, RegExp, Glob* | Requested hostname
`method` | `'ALL'` | *String* | HTTP method (`GET`, `POST`, `PUT`, etc.)
`path` | `null` | *String, RegExp, Glob* | Request path after the hostname, including query params
`pathname` | `null` | *String, RegExp, Glob* | Request path after the hostname, without query params
`port` | `null` | *Number* | Requested port number
`query` | `null` | *Object* | Query parameters
`url` | `null` | *String, RegExp, Glob* | Full request URL

**{% fa fa-angle-right %} response** ***(String, Object, Array, Function)***

This allows you to supply a response `body` to {% url 'stub' stubs-spies-and-clocks#Stubs %} in the matching route. This is accomplished by giving you access to the request that you can use in a plain function.

```js
cy.route2('/users/**', {
  statusCode: 200,
  body: {
    profile: {
      firstName: 'Tony',
      lastName: 'Jarvis'
    }
  }
})
```

> In addition, because you have access to the request, this means that you can modify the request as well:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, you can pass a callback that can modify the outgoing request:
```

```js
cy.route2('/users/**', (req) => {
  req.headers['accept'] = 'application/json'
  req.body = { ...req.body, note: 'Custom note' }
})
```

**{% fa fa-angle-right %} method** ***(String)***

Match the route to a specific HTTP method (`GET`, `POST`, `PUT`, etc).

{% note bolt %}

> By default, Cypress will match `ALL` requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a `method` is not explicitly set, Cypress will match on any HTTP method.
```

cy.visit('/users')
cy.wait('@getUsers')
```

### Wait on matching `method` and `url`

```javascript
cy.route2('POST', '**/users').as('postUser')
cy.visit('/users')
cy.get('#first-name').type('Julius{enter}')
cy.wait('@postUser')
```

### Wait on `url` matching glob

Under the hood Cypress uses {% url 'minimatch' https://github.com/isaacs/minimatch %} to match glob patterns of `url`.

This means you can take advantage of `*` and `**` glob support. This makes it *much* easier to route against dynamic segments without having to build up a complex `RegExp`.

We expose {% url `Cypress.minimatch` minimatch %} as a function that you can use in your console to test routes.

### Match route against any UserId

```javascript
cy.route2('**/users/*/comments')

// https://localhost:7777/users/123/comments     <-- matches
// https://localhost:7777/users/123/comments/465 <-- does not match
```

### Use glob to match all segments

```javascript
cy.route2('**/posts/**')

// https://localhost:7777/posts/1            <-- matches
// https://localhost:7777/posts/foo/bar/baz  <-- matches
// https://localhost:7777/posts/quuz?a=b&1=2 <-- matches
```

### Modify request

> Before a request gets passed through, we can modify the request. The `response` function accepts the request object as a parameter.

Reviewer: it's confusing to call this the `response` function. that's the parameter's name, but the type is a `RouteHandler` in the code, which narrows to a `HttpRequestInterceptor` if it's a function. so 

```suggestion
Before a request gets sent to the real endpoint, we can modify the request. The supplied `RouteHandler` callback receives the request object as a parameter.
```

another place where it would be good to have links to types

> You can also (optionally) add a simulated {% urlHash 'delay' Simulate-delay %} or {% urlHash 'throttle' Simulate-throttle %} on the request to be sent out.

Reviewer: seems like a random place to mention this without an example - the user could also forceNetworkError or reply with a fixture, but neither of those are mentioned here, so why this here?

also, it would be good to document that the throttle/delay is applied to the incoming response. currently the outgoing request cannot be throttled, only the incoming response.

Reviewer: ^ this would be a good thing to centralize, since this applies the same anywhere a `StaticResponse` is used

```javascript
cy.route2('/users', (req) => {
  // modify the headers or body
  req.headers = {...req.headers, accept: 'application/json'}
  req.body = {...req.body, foo: 'bar'}
})
```

### Modify response

> After a request gets passed through, we can modify the response from the server. The `response` function accepts the request object as a parameter. Calling `.send()` on the request exposes a `response` object that can be modified.

Reviewer: What is the "`response` function"? It is not clear to me what this is referring to...

```javascript
cy.route2('/users', (req) => {
  // passing a function to req.send causes the request to pass through
  // and allows the response from the origin server to be modified
  req.send((res) => {
    res.status = 200
    res.headers['x-new-headers'] = 'from-server'

    // dynamically alter body
    res.body = res.body.replace('window.top', 'window.self')
    // now, the response will continue to the browser
  })
})
```

## With Stubbing

If you pass a `response` to `cy.route2()`, Cypress will stub the response in the request.

### `url` as a string

> When passing a String as the `url`, the URL must match *exactly* what you've written. You'll want to use the decoded string and not include any hash encoding (ie. use `@` instead of `%40`).

Reviewer: this is not true - the URL specifically is checked for a substring match, otherwise it is globbed and matched with minimatch, see implementation: https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/blob/0d60f7cd3ede4c5a79e151b646fa2377a7ddb16c/packages/net-stubbing/lib/server/intercept-request.ts#L41-L64

Reviewer: ^ still not true

```javascript

> cy.route2('https://localhost:7777/users/customer?email=john@doe.com', [

Reviewer: this example should be double-checked if it hasn't, urlencoding may affect the `@` character

Reviewer: previous review comment: https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress-documentation/pull/2854#discussion_r461826856

cy.visit('/users')
cy.wait('@getUsers')
```

### Wait on matching `method` and `url`

```javascript
cy.route2('POST', '**/users').as('postUser')
cy.visit('/users')
cy.get('#first-name').type('Julius{enter}')
cy.wait('@postUser')
```

### Wait on `url` matching glob

Under the hood Cypress uses {% url 'minimatch' https://github.com/isaacs/minimatch %} to match glob patterns of `url`.

This means you can take advantage of `*` and `**` glob support. This makes it *much* easier to route against dynamic segments without having to build up a complex `RegExp`.

We expose {% url `Cypress.minimatch` minimatch %} as a function that you can use in your console to test routes.

### Match route against any UserId

```javascript
cy.route2('**/users/*/comments')

// https://localhost:7777/users/123/comments     <-- matches
// https://localhost:7777/users/123/comments/465 <-- does not match
```

### Use glob to match all segments

```javascript
cy.route2('**/posts/**')

// https://localhost:7777/posts/1            <-- matches
// https://localhost:7777/posts/foo/bar/baz  <-- matches
// https://localhost:7777/posts/quuz?a=b&1=2 <-- matches
```

### Modify request

> Before a request gets passed through, we can modify the request before it is sent out through a function. The function exposes a `req` object which contains the request.

Reviewer 2: This could be named anything, weird to define it as `req` object specifically. 

```suggestion
Before a request gets passed through, we can modify the request. The `response` function accepts the request object as a parameter.
```

If you pass a `response` to `cy.route2()`, Cypress will stub the response in the request.

### `url` as a string

When passing a String as the `url`, the URL must match *exactly* what you've written. You'll want to use the decoded string and not include any hash encoding (ie. use `@` instead of `%40`).

```javascript
cy.route2('https://localhost:7777/surveys/customer?email=john@doe.com', [
  {
    id: 1,
    name: 'john'
  }
])
```

### `url` as a RegExp

When passing a RegExp as the `url`, the url will be tested against the regular expression and will apply if it passes.

```javascript
cy.route2(/users\/\d+/, { id: 1, name: 'Phoebe' })
```

```javascript
// Application Code
$.get('https://localhost:7777/users/1337', (data) => {
  console.log(data) // => {id: 1, name: "Phoebe"}
})
```

### Response functions

You can also use a function as a response which enables you to add logic and modify properties of the response. The function exposes a `req` object which contains the request as well as a way to `send` with a response.

```javascript
cy.route2('/login', (req) => {
  req.send('Success')
})
```

```javascript
// reply with body and headers
cy.route2('/login', (req) => {

>   req.send('Success', { 'x-new-headers': 'from-server' })

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  req.reply('Success', { 'x-new-headers': 'from-server' })
```

---
title: route2
containerClass: experimental
---

{% note warning %}
{% fa fa-warning orange %} **This is an experimental feature. In order to use it, you must manually configure the `experimentalNetworkMocking` option to `true`.** See {% issue 687 %} for more details.
{% endnote %}

Use `cy.route2()` to manage the behavior of network requests at the network layer.

## Comparison to cy.route()

Unlike {% url `cy.route()` route %}, `cy.route2()`:

- can mock all types of network requests (i.e., Fetch API, page loads, XMLHttpRequests, etc.)
- no longer requires {% url `cy.server()` server %} before use

# Syntax

```javascript
cy.route2(requestMatcher)
cy.route2(requestMatcher, response)
cy.route2(method, requestMatcher)
cy.route2(method, requestMatcher, response)
```

## Usage

**{% fa fa-check-circle green %} Correct Usage**

```javascript
cy.route2('/users/**')
```

## Arguments

**{% fa fa-angle-right %} requestMatcher** ***(String, Glob, RegExp, Object)***

> The `requestMatcher` argument allows you to listen for a route matching a specific URL or pattern.

Reviewer: The name of the type is `RouteMatcher`, not `RequestMatcher`:

https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/blob/50a45c1b707ef0ccb0447b94ecb04946e994a4db/packages/net-stubbing/lib/external-types.ts#L209-L210

In general, I feel like the docs and types should be in line.

Reviewer 3: @flotwig Agreed. My goal is at some point these should be automatically synced when the core codebase changed so it's autogenerated rather than manual syncing.

For simple route matching, passing a string, glob, or RegExp is the simplest method:

```js
// String

> cy.route2('/users)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cy.route2('/users')
```

// Regex
cy.route2(/users\/\d+/)

// Glob to match all paths in the /user path

> cy.route2('/users/**')

Reviewer: This is another good place to link to minimatch's documentation

Reviewer 3: Adding it as a comment!

// https://localhost:8080/users/1b2c3            <-- matches
// https://localhost:8080/users/profile/edit  <-- matches
// https://localhost:8080/users/transaction?month=03&year=2020 <-- matches

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

newline is making github's syntax highlighting weird, i think

```

However, if you need to match additional properties on the route, you can pass an object instead.

```js
cy.route2({
  path: '/users/**',
  method: 'POST',
})
```

The following contains a complete list of available properties you can verify against:

Option | Default | Description
--- | --- | ---
`auth` | `null` | Object with a `username` and `password` to match HTTP basic authentication
`headers` | `null` | Object to match client request headers
`hostname` | `null` | String, RegExp, or Glob to match based on requested hostname
`method` | `'ALL'` | Match based on HTTP method (`GET`, `POST`, `PUT`, etc.)
`path` | `null` | String, RegExp, or Glob to match on request path after the hostname, including query params
`pathname` | `null` | String, RegExp, or Glob to match on request path after the hostname, without query params
`port` | `null` | Match based on requested port number
`query` | `null` | Object to match based on query parameters
`url` | `null` | String, RegExp, or Glob to match based on full request URL

> 

Reviewer: Probably worth mentioning that globbing uses the minimatch API, so that users can understand how globbing works: https://github.com/isaacs/minimatch

https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/blob/50a45c1b707ef0ccb0447b94ecb04946e994a4db/packages/net-stubbing/lib/server/intercept-request.ts#L63-L63

Reviewer: still need a mention here - passing a string to `auth.username`, `auth.password`, `headers.*`, `hostname`, `method`, `path`, `pathname`, `url` (any string property matcher) will use minimatch to match under the hood

Reviewer: here is the backend's implementation for matching `StringMatcher` fields: https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/blob/0d60f7cd3ede4c5a79e151b646fa2377a7ddb16c/packages/net-stubbing/lib/server/intercept-request.ts#L41-L64

**{% fa fa-angle-right %} response** ***(String, Object, Array, Function)***

This allows you to supply a response `body` to {% url 'stub' stubs-spies-and-clocks#Stubs %} in the matching route. This is accomplished by giving you access to the request that you can use in a plain function.

> ```js
> cy.route2('/users/**', (req) => {
>   req.send({
>     statusCode: 200,
>     body: JSON.stringify({
>       profile: {
>         firstName: 'Tony',
>         lastName: 'Jarvis'
>       }
>     })
>   })
> })
> ```

Reviewer: This is a strange example, this can be done more directly like this:

```suggestion
```js
cy.route2('/users/**', {
  statusCode: 200,
  body: {
    profile: {
      firstName: 'Tony',
      lastName: 'Jarvis'
  }
})
```

Note that the StaticResponse can be supplied directly, without needing to do the dynamic request/response interception.

Additionally, a `body` that is an `object` will automatically be JSONified, and a `Content-Type: application/json` header will be added to the response automatically. This should probably be mentioned somewhere in this doc. Implementation:

https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/blob/50a45c1b707ef0ccb0447b94ecb04946e994a4db/packages/driver/src/cy/net-stubbing/static-response-utils.ts#L84-L91

In addition, because you have access to the request, this means that you can modify the request as well:

```js
cy.route2('/users/**', (req) => {

>   req.headers = { ...req.headers, accept: 'application/json' }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  req.headers['accept'] = 'application/json'
```

>   req.body = { ...req.body, note: 'Custom note' }

Reviewer: `req.body` will currently be a string in all situations, iirc. Might want to write a test to make sure, let me know if you want to pair on this

Reviewer: still needs to be resolved

})
```

**{% fa fa-angle-right %} method** ***(String)***

Match the route to a specific HTTP method (`GET`, `POST`, `PUT`, etc).

{% note bolt %}

> By default, Cypress will match `ALL` requests by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a `method` is not explicitly set, Cypress will match on any HTTP method.
```

{% endnote %}

## Yields {% helper_icon yields %}

{% yields null_alias cy.route2 %}

# Examples

## Without Stubbing

If you do not pass a `response` to a route, Cypress will pass the request through without stubbing it. We can still wait for the request to resolve later.

### Wait on `GET` request matching `url`

```javascript
cy.route2('**/users').as('getUsers')
cy.visit('/users')
cy.wait('@getUsers')
```

### Wait on matching `method` and `url`

```javascript
cy.route2('POST', '**/users').as('postUser')
cy.visit('/users')
cy.get('#first-name').type('Julius{enter}')
cy.wait('@postUser')
```

### Wait on `url` matching glob

> Under the hood Cypress uses {% url 'minimatch' https://github.com/isaacs/minimatch %} to match glob patterns of `url`.

Reviewer: `minimatch` support applies to any `S` string property on `RouteMatcher` as well: https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/blob/50a45c1b707ef0ccb0447b94ecb04946e994a4db/packages/net-stubbing/lib/external-types.ts#L125-L167 this includes strings in the `auth`, `headers`, and `query` objects

Reviewer: as mentioned earlier, this section could also be updated to note that minimatch is used for any `StringMatcher` field

We expose {% url `Cypress.minimatch` minimatch %} as a function that you can use in your console to test routes.

### Match route against any UserId

```javascript
cy.route2('**/users/*/comments')

// https://localhost:7777/users/123/comments     <-- matches
// https://localhost:7777/users/123/comments/465 <-- does not match
```

### Use glob to match all segments

```javascript
cy.route2('**/posts/**')

// https://localhost:7777/posts/1            <-- matches
// https://localhost:7777/posts/foo/bar/baz  <-- matches
// https://localhost:7777/posts/quuz?a=b&1=2 <-- matches
```

### Modify request

Before a request gets passed through, we can modify the request before it is sent out through a function. The function exposes a `req` object which contains the request.

You can also (optionally) add a simulated {% urlHash 'delay' Simulate-delay %} or {% urlHash 'throttle' Simulate-throttle %} on the request to be sent out.

```javascript
cy.route2('/users', (req) => {
  // modify the headers or body
  req.headers = {...req.headers, accept: 'application/json'}
  req.body = {...req.body, foo: 'bar'}
})

> ```

Reviewer: see suggestions from where this example was used earlier

Reviewer: see resolution to https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress-documentation/pull/2854/files/45ae8f49408128281ba5864dfa59354521b1d587#diff-6066033e28279d50ba94ae43b9b5b5a6

### Modify response

> After a request that gets passed through, we can modify the response from the server before it is returned through a function. The function exposes a `req` object which contains the request. The `req.send()` function exposes a `res` object which contains the response.

Reviewer: Terminology used here is strange. "The function exposes" is not phrasing I've heard before. Something along the lines of "The callback supplied as the `RouteHandler` receives a `req` object that contains request information, as well as a `req.send()` function that accepts a callback that will receive a `res` object containing the real response data." would be closer

Reviewer 2: Yah, I said the same above. It doesn't matter what this parameter is called...it's a param, they can name it anything.

```suggestion
After a request gets passed through, we can modify the response from the server. The `response` function accepts the request object as a parameter. Calling `.send()` on the request exposes a `response` object that can be modified.
```

```javascript
cy.route2('/users', (req) => {
  // passing a function to req.send causes the request to pass through
  // and allows the response from the origin server to be modified
  req.send((res) => {
    res.status = 200
    res.headers['x-new-headers'] = 'from-server'

    // dynamically alter body

>     res.body = res.body.replace('window.top', 'window.self')

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    res.body = res.body.replace('window.top', 'window.self')
    // now, the response will continue to the browser
```

  })
})
```

## With Stubbing

> If you pass a `response` to `cy.route()`, Cypress will stub the response in the request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you pass a `response` to `cy.route2()`, Cypress will stub the response in the request.
```

### `url` as a string

> When passing a `string` as the `url`, the URL must match *exactly* what you've written. You'll want to use the decoded string and not include any hash encoding (ie. use `@` instead of `%40`).

Reviewer: not true, it is matched via `minimatch`. also check with tests that this is still true for cy.route2, i believe this was copied from cy.route

```javascript
cy.route2('https://localhost:7777/surveys/customer?email=john@doe.com', [
  {
    id: 1,
    name: 'john'
  }
])
```

### `url` as a RegExp

When passing a RegExp as the `url`, the url will be tested against the regular expression and will apply if it passes.

```javascript
cy.route2(/users\/\d+/, { id: 1, name: 'Phoebe' })
```

```javascript
// Application Code
$.get('https://localhost:7777/users/1337', (data) => {
  console.log(data) // => {id: 1, name: "Phoebe"}
})
```

### Response functions

You can also use a function as a response which enables you to add logic and modify properties of the response. The function exposes a `req` object which contains the request as well as a way to `send` with a response.

```javascript
cy.route2('/login', (req) => {

>   req.send('Success')

Reviewer: it's `req.reply` vs `res.send`:

https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/blob/50a45c1b707ef0ccb0447b94ecb04946e994a4db/packages/net-stubbing/lib/external-types.ts#L44-L50

https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/blob/50a45c1b707ef0ccb0447b94ecb04946e994a4db/packages/net-stubbing/lib/external-types.ts#L19-L38

> cy.route2('/login', (req) => {
>   req.send('Success')
> })

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cy.route2('/login', 'Success')
```

```

```javascript
// reply with body and headers
cy.route2('/login', (req) => {

>   req.send('Success', { 'x-new-headers': 'from-server' })

Reviewer: req.reply

> // reply with body and headers
> cy.route2('/login', (req) => {
>   req.send('Success', { 'x-new-headers': 'from-server' })
> })

Reviewer: strange example, this would be more straightforward:

```suggestion
// reply with body and headers
cy.route2('/login', {
  body: 'Success', 
  headers: { 'x-new-headers': 'from-server' }
})
```

this is important b/c when the response can be supplied statically, it is no longer necessary to make serializations and round-trips to the browser, so it significantly improves performance if the user short-circuits the response by supplyin a `StaticResponse` as early as possible. the examples should reflect this - we should refrain from using dynamic request/response interception unless we actually need the dynamic features for an example

```

```javascript
// reply with an object containing more response details
cy.route2('/login', (req) => {

>   req.send({

Reviewer: req.reply

> ```javascript
> // reply with an object containing more response details
> cy.route2('/login', (req) => {
>   req.send({
>     statusCode: 200,
>     body: JSON.stringify({
>       some: 'response'
>     }),
>     headers: {
>       'x-new-headers': 'from-server'
>     },
>     // If `destroySocket` is truthy, Cypress will destroy the connection to the
>     // browser and send no response. Useful for simulating a server that is not
>     // reachable. Must not be set in combination with other options.
>     destroySocket: false
>   })
> })
> ```

Reviewer: again, this can be done statically (and should be):

```suggestion
```javascript
// reply with an object containing more response details
cy.route2('/login', {
  statusCode: 200,
  body: {
    some: 'response'
  },
  headers: {
    'x-new-headers': 'from-server'
  },
  // If `destroySocket` is truthy, Cypress will destroy the connection to the
  // browser and send no response. Useful for simulating a server that is not
  // reachable. Must not be set in combination with other options.
  destroySocket: false
})
```
```

as before, the body will be JSONified automatically

> ```javascript
> // continue the HTTP response to the browser, including any modifications made to `res`
> cy.route2('/login', (req) => {
>   req.send()
> })
> ```

Reviewer: this is functionally identical to the following code, but has worse performance because of sending req/res to the browser unnecessarily

```suggestion
```javascript
// continue the HTTP response to the browser, including any modifications made to `res` <--- what's `res` here?
cy.route2('/login')
```
```

### Matching requests and routes

> Any request that matches the `method` and `url` of a route will be responded to based on the configuration of that route.

Reviewer: or `auth`, or `path`, or `query`, or `port`, etc... - should probably mention `RouteMatcher` here

{% endnote %}

### Specify the method

The below example matches all `DELETE` requests to "/users" and stubs a response with an empty JSON object.

```javascript
cy.route2('DELETE', '**/users/*', {})
```

### Making multiple requests to the same route

You can test a route multiple times with unique response objects by using {% url 'aliases' variables-and-aliases#Aliases %} and {% url '`cy.wait()`' wait %}. Each time we use `cy.wait()` for an alias, Cypress waits for the next nth matching request.

```javascript
cy.route2('/beetles', []).as('getBeetles')
cy.get('#search').type('Weevil')

// wait for the first response to finish
cy.wait('@getBeetles')

// the results should be empty because we
// responded with an empty array first
cy.get('#beetle-results').should('be.empty')

// now re-define the /beetles response
cy.route2('/beetles', [{ name: 'Geotrupidae' }])

cy.get('#search').type('Geotrupidae')

// now when we wait for 'getBeetles' again, Cypress will
// automatically know to wait for the 2nd response
cy.wait('@getBeetles')

// we responded with 1 beetle item so now we should
// have one result
cy.get('#beetle-results').should('have.length', 1)

> ```

Reviewer: might need to verify this example, not sure stubbing with an array like this will work, could be a potential bug

Reviewer 3: I've updated the example to show multiple routes, but could use some feedback on whether a more practical example exists!

### Fixtures

Instead of writing a response inline you can automatically connect a response with a {% url `cy.fixture()` fixture %}.

```javascript

> cy.route2('**/posts/*', 'fixture:logo.png').as('getLogo')
> cy.route2('**/users', 'fixture:users/all.json').as('getUsers')
> cy.route2('**/admin', 'fx:users/admin.json').as('getAdmin')

Reviewer: this is no longer the way to do it in `route2`, should be a `StaticResponse` with a `fixture` key set: https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/blob/50a45c1b707ef0ccb0447b94ecb04946e994a4db/packages/net-stubbing/lib/external-types.ts#L179-L182

```suggestion
cy.route2('**/posts/*', { fixture: 'logo.png' }).as('getLogo')
cy.route2('**/users', { fixture: 'users/all.json' }).as('getUsers')
cy.route2('**/admin', { fixture: 'users/admin.json' }).as('getAdmin')
```

```

You may want to define the `cy.route2()` after receiving the fixture and working with its data.

```javascript
cy.fixture('user').then((user) => {
  user.firstName = 'Jane'
  // work with the users array here

  cy.route2('GET', '**/user/123', user)
})

cy.visit('/users')
cy.get('.user').should('include', 'Jane')
```

> You can also reference fixtures as strings directly in the response by passing an aliased fixture with `@`.
> 
> ```javascript
> cy.fixture('user').as('fxUser')
> cy.route2('POST', '**/users', '@fxUser')
> ```
> 

Reviewer: this has been removed from `cy.route2` API
```suggestion
```

---
title: route2
containerClass: experimental
---

{% note warning %}
{% fa fa-warning orange %} **This is an experimental feature. In order to use it, you must manually configure the {% url "`experimentalNetworkMocking`" experiments %} option to `true`.** See {% issue 687 %} for more details.
{% endnote %}

Use `cy.route2()` to manage the behavior of network requests at the network layer.

# Comparison to `cy.route()`

Unlike {% url `cy.route()` route %}, `cy.route2()`:

- can mock all types of network requests including Fetch API, page loads, XMLHttpRequests, etc.
- does not require calling {% url `cy.server()` server %} before use

# Syntax

```javascript
// JavaScript
cy.route2(url)
cy.route2(url, response)
cy.route2(method, url)
cy.route2(method, url, response)
```

```typescript
// TypeScript
cy.route2(url: RouteMatcher, response?: RouteHandler): Chainable<null>
cy.route2(method: string, url: RouteMatcher, response?: RouteHandler)): Chainable<null>

> ```

Reviewer 3: @flotwig Good question. So one of the things I wanted to avoid was introducing TypeScript to users who aren't familiar with the syntax. In the new docs, it'd be have more flexibility in terms of letting users choose which one they want to see rather than rendering both.

As far as why there are so many variations, it is to keep consistent with past API signature definitions to show the various ways it could be used.

> ```

Reviewer: > So one of the things I wanted to avoid was introducing TypeScript to users who aren't familiar with the syntax.

By that logic, let's not have 2 sections for signatures, let's just have 1. That way users don't have to be confused about why there would magically be a different API if they're using Typescript.

> As far as why there are so many variations, it is to keep consistent with past API signature definitions to show the various ways it could be used.

Well, it leaves the `routeMatcher` and `routeHandler` options undocumented in the signatures, so I would say it is failing to show the ways it could be used.

> ```

Reviewer 3: @flotwig That's fair. I think given the experimental nature of the feature and what we discussed in Slack. Let's move forward on being a little more progressive with API definitions.

{% note info %}
To learn more about types, check out [the repo](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/blob/0d60f7cd3ede4c5a79e151b646fa2377a7ddb16c/packages/net-stubbing/lib/external-types.ts#L209-L210) for more information.
{% endnote %}

## Usage

**{% fa fa-check-circle green %} Correct Usage**

```javascript
cy.route2('/users/**')
```

## Arguments

> **{% fa fa-angle-right %} url**

Reviewer 3: Going to leave it as `url` since this is what most users are familiar with, but there is an explicit definition of `Type` inside of it so the `routeMatcher` piece is not lost.

This means you can take advantage of `*` and `**` glob support. This makes it *much* easier to route against dynamic segments without having to build up a complex `RegExp`.
{% endnote %}

Option | Default | Type | Description
--- | --- | --- | ---
`auth` | `null` | *Object* | HTTP basic authentication including `username` and `password`
`headers` | `null` | *Object* | Client request headers
`hostname` | `null` | *String, RegExp, Glob* | Requested hostname
`method` | `'ALL'` | *String* | HTTP method (`GET`, `POST`, `PUT`, etc.)
`path` | `null` | *String, RegExp, Glob* | Request path after the hostname, including query params
`pathname` | `null` | *String, RegExp, Glob* | Request path after the hostname, without query params
`port` | `null` | *Number* | Requested port number
`query` | `null` | *Object* | Query parameters
`url` | `null` | *String, RegExp, Glob* | Full request URL

**{% fa fa-angle-right %} response**

- **Description**: Allows you to supply a response `body` to {% url 'stub' stubs-spies-and-clocks#Stubs %} in the matching route.

- **Expects**: `String` | `Object` | `Array` | `Function`

> 

Reviewer 3: I've added a temporary placeholder inside of the docs prior to a docs rewrite. Hope this helps move the needle on this!

// https://localhost:7777/users/123/comments     <-- matches
// https://localhost:7777/users/123/comments/465 <-- does not match
```

### Use glob to match all segments

```javascript
cy.route2('**/posts/**')

// https://localhost:7777/posts/1            <-- matches
// https://localhost:7777/posts/foo/bar/baz  <-- matches
// https://localhost:7777/posts/quuz?a=b&1=2 <-- matches
```

### Modify request

Before a request gets sent to the actual endpoint, we can modify the request. The supplied `RouteHandler` callback receives the request object as a parameter.

You can also (optionally) add a simulated {% urlHash 'delay' Simulate-delay %} or {% urlHash 'throttle' Simulate-throttle %} on the request to be sent out.

```javascript
cy.route2('/users', (req) => {
  // modify the headers or body
  req.headers = {...req.headers, accept: 'application/json'}
  req.body = {...req.body, foo: 'bar'}
})
```

### Modify response

After a request gets passed through, we can modify the response from the server. This is done by passing the `req.send()` method a callback function which receives the original response (i.e., `res`) as the first argument.

```js
cy.route2('/users', (req) => {

>   // passing a function to req.send causes the request to pass through

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // passing a function to req.reply causes the request to pass through
```

  // and allows the response from the origin server to be modified
  req.send((res) => {
    res.status = 200
    res.headers['x-new-headers'] = 'from-server'

    // dynamically alter body
    res.body = res.body.replace('window.top', 'window.self')
    // now, the response will continue to the browser
  })
})
```

## With Stubbing

> If you pass a `response` to `cy.route2()`, Cypress will stub the response in the request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you pass a `routeHandler` as the second argument to `cy.route2()`, Cypress will allow you to stub the response to the request.
```

```javascript
cy.route2('https://localhost:7777/users/customer?email=john@doe.com', [
  {
    id: 1,
    name: 'john'
  }
])
```

### `url` as a RegExp

When passing a RegExp as the `url`, the url will be tested against the regular expression and will apply if it passes.

```javascript
cy.route2(/users\/\d+/, { id: 1, name: 'Phoebe' })
```

```javascript
// Application Code
$.get('https://localhost:7777/users/1337', (data) => {
  console.log(data) // => {id: 1, name: "Phoebe"}
})
```

### Response functions

You can also use a function as a response which enables you to add logic and modify properties of the response. The function exposes a `req` object which contains the request as well as a way to `send` with a response.

```javascript
cy.route2('/login', 'Success')
```

```javascript
// reply with body and headers
cy.route2('/login', (req) => {
  req.reply('Success', { 'x-new-headers': 'from-server' })
})
```

```javascript
// reply with an object containing more response details
cy.route2('/login', {
  statusCode: 200,
  body: {
    some: 'response'
  },
  headers: {
    'x-new-headers': 'from-server'
  },

>   // If `destroySocket` is truthy, Cypress will destroy the connection
>   // to the browser and send no response. Useful for simulating a
>   // server that is not reachable. Must not be set in combination
>   // with other options.
>   destroySocket: false

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // If `forceNetworkError` is truthy, Cypress will destroy the connection
  // to the browser and send no response. Useful for simulating a
  // server that is not reachable. Must not be set in combination
  // with other options.
  forceNetworkError: false
```

- **Description**: Defines a filter for incoming HTTP requests to decide which requests will be handled by this route.

- **Expects**: `String` | `RegExp` | `Object` | [`StaticResponse`](#StaticResponse)

- **Type**: [`RouteMatcher`](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/blob/0d60f7cd3ede4c5a79e151b646fa2377a7ddb16c/packages/net-stubbing/lib/external-types.ts#L118)

- **Examples**:

```js
// String
cy.route2('/users')

// Regex
cy.route2(/users\/\d+/)

// Glob
// Match all paths in a given pattern
// Cypress uses minimatch to match glob patterns
// https://github.com/isaacs/minimatch
// Cypress uses minimatch to match glob patterns
// https://github.com/isaacs/minimatch
cy.route2('/users/**')

// The following would match the previous glob:
// https://localhost:8080/users/johnsmith
// https://localhost:8080/users/profile/edit
// https://localhost:8080/users/transaction?month=03&day=20

// RouteMatcher
// For matching on properties of the request besides the URL.
cy.route2({
  path: '/users/**',
  method: 'POST',
})

// StaticResponse
// Allows you to define a response
// that will be sent back to the browser
// to fulfill the request
cy.route2('/users', {

>   body: { message: "Custom message" },

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  body: { message: 'Custom message' },
```

mdlint

>   statusCode: 200,
>   forceNetworkError: false

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  statusCode: 200
```

## Arguments

**{% fa fa-angle-right %} url**

- **Description**: Defines a filter for incoming HTTP requests to decide which requests will be handled by this route.

- **Expects**: `String` | `RegExp` | `Object` | [`StaticResponse`](#StaticResponse)

- **Type**: [`RouteMatcher`](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/blob/0d60f7cd3ede4c5a79e151b646fa2377a7ddb16c/packages/net-stubbing/lib/external-types.ts#L118)

- **Examples**:

```js
// String
cy.route2('/users')

// Regex
cy.route2(/users\/\d+/)

// Glob
// Match all paths in a given pattern
// Cypress uses minimatch to match glob patterns
// https://github.com/isaacs/minimatch
// Cypress uses minimatch to match glob patterns
// https://github.com/isaacs/minimatch
cy.route2('/users/**')

// The following would match the previous glob:
// https://localhost:8080/users/johnsmith
// https://localhost:8080/users/profile/edit
// https://localhost:8080/users/transaction?month=03&day=20

// RouteMatcher
// For matching on properties of the request besides the URL.
cy.route2({
  path: '/users/**',
  method: 'POST',
})

// StaticResponse
// Allows you to define a response
// that will be sent back to the browser
// to fulfill the request

> cy.route2('/users', {
>   body: '{ "message": "Custom message" }',
>   headers: {
>     accept: 'application/json'
>   },
>   statusCode: 200,
>   forceNetworkError: false
> })

Reviewer: You're defining a response, so the `accept` header isn't used. Also, you can set `body` to an object to automatically set the content-type: json header.

```suggestion
cy.route2('/users', {
  body: { message: "Custom message" },
  statusCode: 200,
  forceNetworkError: false
})
```

```javascript
cy.route2('**/users/*/comments')

// https://localhost:7777/users/123/comments     <-- matches
// https://localhost:7777/users/123/comments/465 <-- does not match
```

### Use glob to match all segments

```javascript
cy.route2('**/posts/**')

// https://localhost:7777/posts/1            <-- matches
// https://localhost:7777/posts/foo/bar/baz  <-- matches
// https://localhost:7777/posts/quuz?a=b&1=2 <-- matches
```

### Modify request

Before a request gets sent to the actual endpoint, we can modify the request. The supplied `RouteHandler` callback receives the request object as a parameter.

You can also (optionally) add a simulated {% urlHash 'delay' Simulate-delay %} or {% urlHash 'throttle' Simulate-throttle %} on the request to be sent out.

```javascript
cy.route2('/users', (req) => {
  // modify the headers or body
  req.headers.accept = 'application/json'
  
  // To modify a JSON response,
  // it will be provided as a string 
  // in req.body and must be
  // parsed and stringified properly.
  const requestBody = JSON.parse(req.body)

  req.body = JSON.stringify({
    ...requestBody, 
    note: 'Custom note' 
  })
})
```

### Modify response

> After a request gets passed through, we can modify the response from the server. This is done by passing the `req.reply()` method a callback function which receives the original response (i.e., `res`) as the first argument.

Reviewer: the other invocation of `req.reply` (passing no argument, or passing a StaticResponse) is not documented anywhere as far as i can tell

Reviewer: once req.reply() is documented, it should be noted that req.reply() will implicitly be called once the `routeHandler` finishes (or if the `routeHandler` returns a Promise, it will be called once the Promise resolves)

```js
cy.route2('/users', (req) => {
  // passing a function to req.reply causes the request to pass through
  // and allows the response from the origin server to be modified

>   req.reply((res) => {

Reviewer: once `res.send()` is documented, it should be noted that `res.send()` will implicitly be called once the function finishes (or if the function returns a Promise, it will be called once the Promise resolves)

    res.status = 200
    res.headers['x-new-headers'] = 'from-server'

    // dynamically alter body
    res.body = res.body.replace('window.top', 'window.self')

>     // now, the response will continue to the browser

Reviewer: so this is the only place where req.reply is mentioned...

but the res object doesn't seem to be documented. none of these functions are documented anywhere, even though they provide critical functionality to modifying origin responses:

https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/blob/cc357f98992ace16d39bbfcdd155421c9d474b15/packages/net-stubbing/lib/external-types.ts#L19-L39

Reviewer: ex. res.send, res.delay, res.throttle...

cy.wait('@postBlogPost')

// we responded with 1 beetle item so now we should
// have one result
cy.get('#blog-post-results').should('have.length', 1)
```

### Fixtures

Instead of writing a response inline you can automatically connect a response with a {% url `cy.fixture()` fixture %}.

```javascript
cy.route2('**/posts/*', { fixture: 'logo.png' }).as('getLogo')
cy.route2('**/users', { fixture: 'users/all.json' }).as('getUsers')
cy.route2('**/admin', { fixture: 'users/admin.json' }).as('getAdmin')
```

You may want to define the `cy.route2()` after receiving the fixture and working with its data.

```javascript
cy.fixture('user').then((user) => {
  user.firstName = 'Jane'
  // work with the users array here

  cy.route2('GET', '**/user/123', user)
})

cy.visit('/users')
cy.get('.user').should('include', 'Jane')
```

## Options

### Server redirect

You can simulate a server redirect through the `redirect` method exposed by the handler function.

```javascript
cy.route2('/login', (req) => {
  req.redirect('/register')
})
```

### Simulate delay

You can specify a delay (in ms) before the response is sent to the client.

```javascript
cy.route2('/users', (req) => {

>   req.delay(200)

Reviewer: there is no req.delay, only res.delay

})
```

### Simulate throttle

You can specify the speed at which a response is served at (in kilobytes per second).

```javascript
cy.route2('/users', (req) => {

>   req.throttle(3000)

Reviewer: there is no req.throttle, only res.throttle
